# Age_Gender_Detection

“Age is just a number”, well that’s not how law perceives it and neither does any other public authority. In every country, there are a plethora of laws whose very foundation stands on the age of the concerned. For example, there is a defined ‘age of majority’ in every country which legally demarcates childhood from adulthood, and is usually set to 18. Furthermore, the age range of a person helps in the verification documents (Passport, Driving License, etc.). Similarly, successful gender recognition is essential and critical for many applications in the commercial domains, like human-computer interactions: such as computer-aided physiological or psychological analysis of a human.

The project is an application of deep learning applied to faces. Here, the convolutional neural network architecture is being used which is a deep neural network extensively used for the processing and recognition of images. The project is in C++ and deals with two problems: Gender Classification and Age Detection. In the case of Age detection, it seems as if it should be approached as a regression problem given that we are expecting a real number as an output. However, there is a catch, even humans determine only an age approximation of a new face instead of an accurate age prediction. So, it is better to frame the problem as a Classification problem to estimate an age-range of a new face. The principle idea behind the system is to compare the image with the reference images stored as templates in the database and to determine the age and gender. 
